README.rst, before:

Oregano - Lightweight Ergon client (Doesn't connect to the network yet!)
=====================================

::

  Licence: MIT Licence
  Author: Oregano Developers
  Language: Python
  Homepage: https://ergon.moe/


Getting started
===============

**Note: If running from source, Python 3.6 or above is required to run Oregano.** If your system lacks Python 3.6,
you have other options, such as the `AppImage / binary releases <https://github.com/Ergon-moe/Oregano/releases/>`_
or running from source using `pyenv` (see section `Running from source on old Linux`_ below).

**macOS:** It is recommended that macOS users run `the binary .dmg <https://github.com/Ergon-moe/Oregano/releases/>`_  as that's simpler to use and has everything included.  Otherwise, if you want to run from source, see section `Running from source on macOS`_ below.

Oregano is a pure python application forked from Electron Cash. If you want to use the Qt interface, install the Qt dependencies::

    sudo apt-get install python3-pyqt5 python3-pyqt5.qtsvg

If you downloaded the official package (tar.gz), you can run
Oregano from its root directory (called Oregano), without installing it on your
system; all the python dependencies are included in the 'packages'
directory. To run Oregano from its root directory, just do::

    ./oregano-app

You can also install Oregano on your system, by running this command::

    sudo apt-get install python3-setuptools
    python3 setup.py install

This will download and install the Python dependencies used by
Oregano, instead of using the 'packages' directory.

If you cloned the git repository, you need to compile extra files
before you can run Oregano. Read the next section, "Development
Version".

Hardware Wallet - Ledger Nano S
-------------------------------

Oregano support Ledger Nano S hardware wallet by pretending it's a BCH wallet. If you plan to use
you need an additional dependency, namely btchip. To install it run this command::

    sudo pip3 install btchip-python

Warning [1]: When tricking Ledger you're using Bitcoin Cash, not Ergon, it will give you a bitcoincash: address for verification. You can convert your ergon: address to bitcoincash: format with a script scripts/addree

Warning [2]: When using a nonstandard derivation path (default derivation path of Ergon is different than of Bitcoin Cash) Ledger requires you to confirm each utxo spend with multiple clicks, which is very inconvenient if you have hundreds of coins. Use wisely.

Development version
===================

Check your python version >= 3.6, and install pyqt5, as instructed above in the
`Getting started`_ section above or `Running from source on old Linux`_ section below.

If you are on macOS, see the `Running from source on macOS`_ section below.

Check out the code from Github::

    git clone https://github.com/Ergon-moe/Oregano
    cd Oregano

Install the python dependencies::

    pip3 install -r contrib/requirements/requirements.txt --user

Create translations (optional)::

    sudo apt-get install python-requests gettext
    ./contrib/make_locale

Compile libsecp256k1 (optional, yet highly recommended)::

    sudo apt-get install libtool automake
    ./contrib/make_secp

For plugin development, see the `plugin documentation <plugins/README.rst>`_.

Running unit tests (very optional, advanced users only)::

    pip install tox
    tox

Tox will take care of building a faux installation environment, and ensure that
the mapped import paths work correctly.

Running from source on old Linux
================================

If your Linux distribution has a different version of python 3 (such as python
3.5 in Debian 9), it is recommended to do a user dir install with
`pyenv <https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-installer>`_. This allows Electron
Cash to run completely independently of your system configuration.

1. Install `pyenv <https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-installer>`_ in your user
   account. Follow the printed instructions about updating your environment
   variables and ``.bashrc``, and restart your shell to ensure that they are
   loaded.
2. Run ``pyenv install 3.6.9``. This will download and compile that version of
   python, storing it under ``.pyenv`` in your home directory.
3. ``cd`` into the Oregano directory. Run ``pyenv local 3.6.9`` which inserts
   a file ``.python-version`` into the current directory.
4. While still in this directory, run ``pip install pyqt5``.
5. If you are installing from the source file (.tar.gz or .zip) then you are
   ready and you may run ``./oregano``. If you are using the git version,
   then continue by following the Development version instructions above.

Running from source on macOS
============================

You need to install **either** `MacPorts <https://www.macports.org>`_  **or** `HomeBrew <https://www.brew.sh>`_.  Follow the instructions on either site for installing (Xcode from `Apple's developer site <https://developer.apple.com>`_ is required for either).

1. After installing either HomeBrew or MacPorts, clone this repository and switch to the directory: ``git clone https://github.com/Ergon-moe/Oregano && cd Oregano``
2. Install python 3.6 or 3.7. For brew: ``brew install python3`` or if using MacPorts: ``sudo port install python36``
3. Install PyQt5: ``python3 -m pip install --user pyqt5``
4. Install Oregano requirements: ``python3 -m pip install --user -r contrib/requirements/requirements.txt``
5. Compile libsecp256k1 (optional, yet highly recommended): ``./contrib/make_secp``.
   This requires GNU tools and automake, install with brew: ``brew install coreutils automake`` or if using MacPorts: ``sudo port install coreutils automake``
6. At this point you should be able to just run the sources: ``./oregano``


Creating Binaries
=================

Linux AppImage & Source Tarball
--------------

See `contrib/build-linux/README.md <contrib/build-linux/README.md>`_.

Mac OS X / macOS
--------

See `contrib/osx/ <contrib/osx/>`_.

Windows
-------

See `contrib/build-wine/ <contrib/build-wine>`_.

Android
-------

See `android/ <android/>`_.

iOS
-------

See `ios/ <ios/>`_.

Commit message:

Fix readme, add Arch instruction

README.rst, after:

Oregano - Lightweight Ergon client
==================================

::

  Licence: MIT Licence
  Author: Oregano Developers
  Language: Python
  Homepage: https://ergon.moe/


Getting started
===============

**Note: If running from source, Python 3.6 or above is required to run Oregano.** If your system lacks Python 3.6,
you have other options, such as the `AppImage / binary releases <https://github.com/Ergon-moe/Oregano/releases/>`_
or running from source using `pyenv` (see section `Running from source on old Linux`_ below).

**macOS:** It is recommended that macOS users run `the binary .dmg <https://github.com/Ergon-moe/Oregano/releases/>`_  as that's simpler to use and has everything included.  Otherwise, if you want to run from source, see section `Running from source on macOS`_ below.

Oregano is a pure python application forked from Electron Cash. If you want to use the Qt interface, install the Qt dependencies::

    sudo apt-get install python3-pyqt5 python3-pyqt5.qtsvg

If you downloaded the official package (tar.gz), you can run
Oregano from its root directory (called Oregano), without installing it on your
system; all the python dependencies are included in the 'packages'
directory. To run Oregano from its root directory, just do::

    ./oregano-app

You can also install Oregano on your system, by running this command::

    sudo apt-get install python3-setuptools
    python3 setup.py install

This will download and install the Python dependencies used by
Oregano, instead of using the 'packages' directory.

If you cloned the git repository, you need to compile extra files
before you can run Oregano. Read the next section, "Development
Version".

Hardware Wallet - Ledger Nano S
-------------------------------

Oregano support Ledger Nano S hardware wallet by pretending it's a BCH wallet. If you plan to use
you need an additional dependency, namely btchip. To install it run this command::

    sudo pip3 install btchip-python

Warning [1]: When tricking Ledger you're using Bitcoin Cash, not Ergon, it will give you a bitcoincash: address for verification. You can convert your ergon: address to bitcoincash: format with a script scripts/addree

Warning [2]: When using a nonstandard derivation path (default derivation path of Ergon is different than of Bitcoin Cash) Ledger requires you to confirm each utxo spend with multiple clicks, which is very inconvenient if you have hundreds of coins. Use wisely.

Development version
===================

Check your python version >= 3.6, and install pyqt5, as instructed above in the
`Getting started`_ section above or `Running from source on old Linux`_ section below.

If you are on macOS, see the `Running from source on macOS`_ section below.

Check out the code from Github::

    git clone https://github.com/Ergon-moe/Oregano
    cd Oregano

Install the python dependencies::

    pip3 install -r contrib/requirements/requirements.txt --user

Create translations (optional)::

    sudo apt-get install python-requests gettext
    ./contrib/make_locale

Compile libsecp256k1 (optional, yet highly recommended)::

    sudo apt-get install libtool automake
    ./contrib/make_secp

For plugin development, see the `plugin documentation <plugins/README.rst>`_.

Running unit tests (very optional, advanced users only)::

    pip install tox
    tox

Tox will take care of building a faux installation environment, and ensure that
the mapped import paths work correctly.

Running from source on old Linux
================================

If your Linux distribution has a different version of python 3 (such as python
3.5 in Debian 9), it is recommended to do a user dir install with
`pyenv <https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-installer>`_. This allows Electron
Cash to run completely independently of your system configuration.

1. Install `pyenv <https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-installer>`_ in your user
   account. Follow the printed instructions about updating your environment
   variables and ``.bashrc``, and restart your shell to ensure that they are
   loaded.
2. Run ``pyenv install 3.6.9``. This will download and compile that version of
   python, storing it under ``.pyenv`` in your home directory.
3. ``cd`` into the Oregano directory. Run ``pyenv local 3.6.9`` which inserts
   a file ``.python-version`` into the current directory.
4. While still in this directory, run ``pip install pyqt5``.
5. If you are installing from the source file (.tar.gz or .zip) then you are
   ready and you may run ``./oregano-app``. If you are using the git version,
   then continue by following the Development version instructions above.


Running from source on Arch Linux
=================================

Using pip is is not recommended on Arch Linux. To install the dependencies in your package manager use the following::

    sudo pacman -S python-dnspython python-pyaes python-ecdsa python-requests python-qrcode python-protobuf python-jsonrpclib-pelix python-pysocks python-qdarkstyle python-dateutil python-stem python-certfi

One package from AUR, either use AUR helper of your choice::

    yay -S python-pathvalidate

Or manually::

    git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/python-pathvalidate.git
    cd python-pathvalidate; makepkg -i

Running from source on macOS
============================

You need to install **either** `MacPorts <https://www.macports.org>`_  **or** `HomeBrew <https://www.brew.sh>`_.  Follow the instructions on either site for installing (Xcode from `Apple's developer site <https://developer.apple.com>`_ is required for either).

1. After installing either HomeBrew or MacPorts, clone this repository and switch to the directory: ``git clone https://github.com/Ergon-moe/Oregano && cd Oregano``
2. Install python 3.6 or 3.7. For brew: ``brew install python3`` or if using MacPorts: ``sudo port install python36``
3. Install PyQt5: ``python3 -m pip install --user pyqt5``
4. Install Oregano requirements: ``python3 -m pip install --user -r contrib/requirements/requirements.txt``
5. Compile libsecp256k1 (optional, yet highly recommended): ``./contrib/make_secp``.
   This requires GNU tools and automake, install with brew: ``brew install coreutils automake`` or if using MacPorts: ``sudo port install coreutils automake``
6. At this point you should be able to just run the sources: ``./oregano-app``


Creating Binaries
=================

Linux AppImage & Source Tarball
-------------------------------

See `contrib/build-linux/README.md <contrib/build-linux/README.md>`_.

Mac OS X / macOS
----------------

See `contrib/osx/ <contrib/osx/>`_.

Windows
-------

See `contrib/build-wine/ <contrib/build-wine>`_.

Android
-------

See `android/ <android/>`_.

iOS
---

See `ios/ <ios/>`_.
